docs: document user data form feature (#4783)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/local-ui/host-management/edit-user-data.md

---
sidebar_label: "Edit User Data"
title: "Edit User Data"
description: "Instructions for editing user data in Local UI."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["edge"]
---

The **user-data** file is a YAML file that contains installer configuration for the Palette agent. This file is usually
prepared before the EdgeForge process and is written into the installer ISO in appliance mode deployments. In agent mode
deployments, the user data is provided directly to the agent mode installation script. For more information about
EdgeForge, refer to [EdgeForge Workflow](../../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md). For more information about
deployment modes, refer to [Deployment Modes](../../../../deployment-modes/deployment-modes.md).

> Local UI allows you to make edits to most fields in the **user-data** file after installation has completed before
> cluster creation. All fields exposed in the form in Local UI have corresponding parameters in the installer reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Local UI, you can interact with your user-data configuration and make updates to it. This is useful for situations in which you want to modify the user-data before forming a cluster with the Edge hosts. All fields exposed in the form in Local UI have corresponding parameters in the installer reference.
```
I wonder if maybe there is a way to make this sentence a bit easier to read 🤔  I took a stab at the sentence but feel free to change it

For more information about the fields available in the installer user data, refer to
[Installer Reference](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md).

After an edit has been made, the new settings will apply after the host reboots.

:::preview

:::

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: Good - very helpful to list these out.

> - The following fields cannot be edited in Local UI. If you need to use these settings, you must set them correctly
>   during EdgeForge or provide them to the installation script if you are using agent mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The following fields cannot be edited in Local UI. If you need to update these settings, you must set them correctly
  during EdgeForge or provide them to the installation script if you are using agent mode.
```
Is update the right word here? "use" feels a bit out of place 😅

Author: I would take use over update because update implies that settings are already there? Most of these are empty parameters and if users want to use them they have to do it in the user data. I think I can change "settings" to "parameters"

  - `stylus.site.deviceUIDPaths`
  - `stylus.site.tagsFromFile`
  - `stylus.site.tagsFromScript`
  - `stylus.localUI.port`
  - `stylus.includeTui`
  - `stylus.debug`
  - `stylus.trace`
  - `stylus.disablePasswordUpdate`
  - `stylus.imageRedirectWebhook`
  - `install.bind_mounts`

## Prerequisites

- You have set `stylus.featureGate` to `UserDataForm` in your installer user data during EdgeForge or provide the user
  data to the installation script if you are using agent mode. For example, the following configuration enables editing

>   user data in Local UI.

Reviewer: @lennessyy are you trying to say that users need to set `stylus.featureGate` to `UserDataForm` ? The paragraph confused me a bit.

Maybe something like.

Set the user-data parameter `stylus.featureGate` to the value `UserDataForm`. This applies to both Applicance Mode, and Agent Mode.

Reviewer: The other thing I noticed is that we don't have the parameter defined in Edge Installer Configuration Reference page.

Author: I wanted to emphasize **when** they set it, though, because this whole feature is about editing user data in the UI, and this is not like they can change this in the UI later.

  ```yaml {6}
  #cloud-config
  install:
    reboot: false
    poweroff: false
  stylus:
    featureGate: UserDataForm
    installationMode: airgap
  ```

- Access to [Local UI](./access-console.md).

> - You host is not assigned to any cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure the Local UI host is not assigned to any cluster.
```

## Edit User Data

> 1. Log in to Local UI. Refer to [Access Local UI](./access-console.md) for guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Local UI. Refer to [Access Local UI](./access-console.md) for guidance on accessing Local UI.
```

2. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Actions** to open the **drop-down Menu**.

3. Click **Configure**.

> 4. The pop-up box, you can configure most host settings that are configurable in the installer ISO user data, starting
>    with **Basic Information**. You can enter the name of the host, which corresponds to `stylus.site.name` in the user
>    data file. You may also configure tags for your host, which corresponds to `stylus.site.tags`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the pop-up box, you can configure most host settings that are configurable in the installer ISO user data, starting
   with **Basic Information**. You can enter the host's name, which corresponds to `stylus.site.name` in the user
   data file. You may also configure tags for your host, corresponding to `stylus.site.tags`.
```

Minor suggestions to help shorten the sentence.

> 5. In the **Network** section, you can configure network interfaces that the host will use to communicate with the its
>    network environment. Refer to
>    [Site Network Parameters](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#site-network-parameters) for more
>    information about the network parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Network** section, you can configure network interfaces that the host will use to communicate with the
   network environment. Refer to
   [Site Network Parameters](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#site-network-parameters) for more
   information about the network parameters.
```

   | Field         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
   | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Interface     | The name of the network interface that the host will use to communicate with the cluster. You can add multiple network interfaces. This corresponds to the `stylus.site.network.<Interface Name>` field in the installer user data. |

>    | Use Static IP | Toggle on this switch to specify that your network interface will use static IP. If this field is turned off, your network interface will use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) to obtain dynamic IPs.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | Use Static IP | Toggle this switch to specify that your network interface will use static IP. If this field is turned off, your network interface will use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) to obtain dynamic IPs.                     |
```

   | Registration Token      | This parameter contains the registration token the host will use to register itself with Palette. This corresponds to the `stylus.site.edgeHostToken` parameter.                                                                                          |
   | Project Name            | This parameter specifies the name of the project that the host is registered in. This corresponds to the `stylus.site.projectName` parameter.                                                                                                             |

7. In the **Advanced Configurations** section, you can configure external registry settings and cloud-init stages for
   your host. If you choose to enable external registries, you will need to provide the domain name of the registry as
   well as the credentials needed to access the registry. For more information about external registries, refer to
   [Deploy Cluster with a Private External Registry](../../site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/deploy-external-registry.md).

> 8. In the **Advanced Configurations** section, cloud-init configurations are editable directly in the YAML editor. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. You can modify cloud-init configurations in **Advanced Configurations** section. Make any required changes directly in the YAML editor. For
```
It felt odd to read the same intro to the sentence as the one earlier.
